README.md, before:

# stayontop
Scrapes Gmail account, then webpage periodically. Small homebrew project for a real estate agent where responding to new offers in a timely fashion was paramount but the content of the response could easily be automated.

# to-do
Basically this works as intended now. For fun I could try running the automated reply through one of these LLM services to get a slightly different email every time ...

# Requirements
- `python3`
- `selenium` 4.29+
- `geckodriver` 0.36+


# Use
## Prerequisites
### For Raspberry Pi 3 (using ARM64 architecture)
Install `Selenium`:

    apt install python3-selenium

Install geckodriver:

    wget https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases/download/v0.36.0/geckodriver-v0.36.0-linux-aarch64.tar.gz
    tar -xvzf geckodriver-v0.36.0-linux-aarch64.tar.gz
    sudo mv geckodriver /usr/local/bin/

## Setup
You need to arrange two things to make this work: 
1. setup the constants by making a `constants.py` file and 
2. make the script execute at regular intervals.
### constants.py
A number of constants are used in this script which are personal to my usecase. For obvious reasons, I am not sharing the actual constants, so you have to set it up yourself. An `example_constants.py` file has been provided and the script expects a `constants.py` module. This means you need to rename `example_constants.py` to `constants.py` and fill out values yourself:

    USERNAME: this is your email username. Ex: `jdoe`
    PASSWORD: this is your email password. Ex: `password123`. Note that I use Gmail with 2FA, and if you do so as well, you will need to use an app password (Google it).
    IMAP_SERVER: this is the IMAP server address. For Gmail, this is `imap.gmail.com`. 
    SMTP_SERVER: this is the SMTP server address. For Gmail, this is `smtp.gmail.com`.
    SMTP_PORT: this is the port the SMTP server listens on for TLS. For Gmail, this is `587`.
    AGENCY_ADDRESS: this is the email address that you are scanning for emails from. Ex: `offers@realagency.com`
    AGENCY_URL: this is the url for the website you are going to scrape for the location taken from the email notification. Ex: `www.realagency.com`
    REGSTR: this is a regex string to find the location name that you are scraping the website for. Ex: `Now Available: (.+, .+)` for `Now Available: 40th. Str., NYC`
    SEPARATOR: this is a single character string (I hope) by which you split the resulting string. Ex `','` for `40th. Str., NYC`. Can be set to `''` if your usecase requires it and it will skip the string split.
    NAME: this is your own name, to be filled out on the form. Ex: "John Doe"
    EMAIL: this is your email address, to be filled out on the form. Ex: "j.doe@gmail.com"
    PHONE: this is your phone number, to be filled out on the form. Currently unused.
    MESSAGE_FIRST_HALF: first half of the message to be filled out on the form. Expects to be combined with MESSAGE_SECOND_HALF in the following way: `MESSAGE_FIRST_HALF + location_name + MESSAGE_SECOND_HALF + NAME`. Ex: `Good day, I like the property at '.
    MESSAGE_SECOND_HALF: second half of the message to be filled out on the form. See above. Ex: `, and would like to arrange a viewing. Kind regards, `

Note that the current version of this script scans the email *subject*. If you want, you can scan the body instead by editing the `match = re.search(constants.REGSTR, subject)` statement near the end of the `email_checker()` function in `emailchecker.py` to `match = re.search(constants.REGSTR, body)`. Obviously, you will need to be more specific with the regex string in `constants.REGSTR` accordingly.

### cron
The script checks your email and scrapes the website etc. *once*. We want to execute this very frequently, let's say every five (5) minutes. There's plenty of ways of doing so, but my solution was setting up a cron job on my Raspberry Pi. Additionally, directly running `emailutils.py` will take the largest logfile and email it to you. It's intended for a daily cron job. Combining the two, we get:

    crontab -e
    */5 * * * * /usr/bin/python3 /home/pi/stayontop.py
    0 1 * * * /usr/bin/python3 /home/pi/emailutils.py

Obviously adjust the path to `stayontop.py` and `emailutils.py` as you see fit. In particular, on newer Raspbian distros you will need to adjust `/home/pi` to `/home/USERNAME`.

Regarding the daily `emailutils.py` cron job: it will execute at 1 AM in this example. Given that it searches for the largest file in the `logs` directory and emails it to you (based on `constants.EMAIL`) it will email logs from the previous day. Note that if you get an email without an attachment, it means no logging has been taking place. That's reason for concern!

Commit message:

Added email rewriting using the OpenAI API.

README.md, after:

# stayontop
Scrapes Gmail account, then webpage periodically. Small homebrew project for a real estate agent where responding to new offers in a timely fashion was paramount but the content of the response could easily be automated.

# to-do
Basically this works as intended now. For fun I could try running the automated reply through one of these LLM services to get a slightly different email every time ...

# Requirements
- `python3`
- `selenium` 4.29+
- `geckodriver` 0.36+


# Use
## Prerequisites
### For Raspberry Pi 3 (using ARM64 architecture)
Install `Selenium` and the `OpenAI` Python package. You may need to setup a virtual environment for this. Note that you will have to adapt the cron `python3` path if you do so.

    pip install selenium
    pip install openai


Install geckodriver:

    wget https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases/download/v0.36.0/geckodriver-v0.36.0-linux-aarch64.tar.gz
    tar -xvzf geckodriver-v0.36.0-linux-aarch64.tar.gz
    sudo mv geckodriver /usr/local/bin/

## Setup
You need to arrange two things to make this work: 
1. setup the constants by making a `constants.py` file and 
2. make the script execute at regular intervals.
### constants.py
A number of constants are used in this script which are personal to my usecase. For obvious reasons, I am not sharing the actual constants, so you have to set it up yourself. An `example_constants.py` file has been provided and the script expects a `constants.py` module. This means you need to rename `example_constants.py` to `constants.py` and fill out values yourself:

    USERNAME: this is your email username. Ex: `jdoe`
    PASSWORD: this is your email password. Ex: `password123`. Note that I use Gmail with 2FA, and if you do so as well, you will need to use an app password (Google it).
    IMAP_SERVER: this is the IMAP server address. For Gmail, this is `imap.gmail.com`. 
    SMTP_SERVER: this is the SMTP server address. For Gmail, this is `smtp.gmail.com`.
    SMTP_PORT: this is the port the SMTP server listens on for TLS. For Gmail, this is `587`.
    AGENCY_ADDRESS: this is the email address that you are scanning for emails from. Ex: `offers@realagency.com`
    AGENCY_URL: this is the url for the website you are going to scrape for the location taken from the email notification. Ex: `www.realagency.com`
    REGSTR: this is a regex string to find the location name that you are scraping the website for. Ex: `Now Available: (.+, .+)` for `Now Available: 40th. Str., NYC`
    SEPARATOR: this is a single character string (I hope) by which you split the resulting string. Ex `','` for `40th. Str., NYC`. Can be set to `''` if your usecase requires it and it will skip the string split.
    NAME: this is your own name, to be filled out on the form. Ex: "John Doe"
    EMAIL: this is your email address, to be filled out on the form. Ex: "j.doe@gmail.com"
    PHONE: this is your phone number, to be filled out on the form. Currently unused.
    MESSAGE_FIRST_HALF: first half of the message to be filled out on the form. Expects to be combined with MESSAGE_SECOND_HALF in the following way: `MESSAGE_FIRST_HALF + location_name + MESSAGE_SECOND_HALF + NAME`. Ex: `Good day, I like the property at '.
    MESSAGE_SECOND_HALF: second half of the message to be filled out on the form. See above. Ex: `, and would like to arrange a viewing. Kind regards, `

Note that the current version of this script scans the email *subject*. If you want, you can scan the body instead by editing the `match = re.search(constants.REGSTR, subject)` statement near the end of the `email_checker()` function in `emailchecker.py` to `match = re.search(constants.REGSTR, body)`. Obviously, you will need to be more specific with the regex string in `constants.REGSTR` accordingly.

### cron
The script checks your email and scrapes the website etc. *once*. We want to execute this very frequently, let's say every five (5) minutes. There's plenty of ways of doing so, but my solution was setting up a cron job on my Raspberry Pi. Additionally, directly running `emailutils.py` will take the largest logfile and email it to you. It's intended for a daily cron job. Combining the two, we get:

    crontab -e
    */5 * * * * /usr/bin/python3 /home/pi/stayontop.py
    0 1 * * * /usr/bin/python3 /home/pi/emailutils.py

Obviously adjust the path to `stayontop.py` and `emailutils.py` as you see fit. In particular, on newer Raspbian distros you will need to adjust `/home/pi` to `/home/USERNAME`.

Regarding the daily `emailutils.py` cron job: it will execute at 1 AM in this example. Given that it searches for the largest file in the `logs` directory and emails it to you (based on `constants.EMAIL`) it will email logs from the previous day. Note that if you get an email without an attachment, it means no logging has been taking place. That's reason for concern!
